external/mods/trials/README.md, before:

# Universal Trials Mode
> Last tested on Ikemen GO v0.99

> Module developed by two4teezee
---
This external module offers a universal solution for Trials Mode. This markdown file is best viewed in Github or your favorite markdown file viewer.

## Installation
1. Extract archive content into "./external/mods/trials" directory
2. Add DEF code to your screenpack's `system.def`. Use the sample DEF code additions from this file to your `system.def`.
3. Add sprites to system.sff, or alternatively, create a `trials.sff`, as required.
4. Add sounds to system.snd, as required.
5. Create new trials for your character(s). As a starting point, you can use the templates found in this file to create a `trials.def` file and edit `kfmZ.def`, both in "./chars/kfmZ". You can follow the instructions in the template to create trials for any character you would like. I also have created some trials and am sharing them on Github.
6. Share your trials definition files with others!

## General info
The Trials mode provides new screenpack features and engine features so that creators can create trials for their character creations, and fully customize the way the trials are presented.

## system.def Template and Customization
Using this external module allows full customization of the trials mode in system.def, with sprites in system.sff OR in `trials.sff`, if so desired. If you are using `trials.sff`, make sure you point to it in the system.def's [Files] section as `trialsbgdef = trials.sff`.

The universal trials mode supports both vertical trials readouts, and horizontal readouts as seen in KOF XIV, among other games. The sample `system.def` included in this file can be configured to support either layouts, but as shown, it is configured to work exclusively with default assets (only uses fonts and stock glyphs, for instance). Below you'll find a brief summary of screenpack features supported by trials mode. For more detail, please consult the example `system.def` templates provided in this file for both vertical and horizontal layouts.

You can make the trials mode look as fancy or as basic as you want. The default trials mode example shipped with this module leverage "stock" Ikemen fonts and sprites in the most minimal way possible.

- A window must be specified in which the trial steps are drawn. This feature enables long trial lists that need to scroll (for vertical layouts) or have line returns and potentially scrolling (for horizontal layouts).
- The trial title name can optionally be displayed. Text and two background elements (bg and front) can be specified.
- Trial steps come in three flavors: upcoming, current, and completed. Text and background elements can be specified for each type. 
	- For horizontal layouts, the background elements are handled differently. Background elements are tiled dynamically to fit the width and height of the glyphs and desired padding around the glyph for that step.
    - Additionally, each trial step type has an "incrementor" background element. This incrementor is displayed between trial steps (for instance, as an arrow). Upcoming and current step both have incrementors, while completed steps have incrementors to other completed step, as well as an incrementor to the current step (since they could be formatted differently, for instance).
	- Note that trial step text is not displayed in horizontal layouts.
- A static or animated background can be displayed behind all trial steps. This background is independent of all trial step backgrounds, and is only displayed when a trial is active.
- Glyphs can be automatically scaled according to the font used (especially useful for vertical layouts).
	- Glyphs are optional for vertical layouts, but they are mandatory for horizontal layouts as text is not displayed in horizontal layouts.
- For Success and All Clear events, text and sound elements, as well as two background elements (bg and front) can be specified.
- Two timers are available: one keeps track of the entire time spent on the trials, while the other keeps track of the time spent on the current trial. Display of the timers is optional.
- A text string that shows the current trial can optionally be displayed.

```
[Trials Info] ;VERTICAL EXAMPLE
	trialsteps.pos 				= 42,40
	trialsteps.spacing 			= 0,11
	trialsteps.window			= 40,40, 320,240
	trialsteps.resetonsuccess	= "false"
	trialsteps.trialslayout 	= "vertical"
	; trialsteps.pos: local origin from which trial steps are drawn. Other elements have their own origin specifications.
    ; trialsteps.spacing: spacing between trial steps.
    ; trialsteps.window: X1,Y1,X2,Y2: display window for trials--will create automated scrolling or line returns, depending on the trial layout of choice
	; trialsteps.resetonsuccess: set to "true" to reset character position after each trial success (except the final one)--currently doesn't work
    ; trialsteps.trialslayout: "vertical" or "horizontal" are the only valid values. Defaults to "vertical" if not specified. Affects scrolling logic, as stated above, also enables dynamic step width

	upcomingstep.text.offset		= 0,0
	upcomingstep.text.font			= 1, 0, 1, 255, 255, 255
	upcomingstep.text.scale			= 1,1
	; upcomingstep.text.font.height	=
	; upcomingstep.bg.offset 		= -10,-6
	; upcomingstep.bg.anim			= 609
	; upcomingstep.bg.spr			= 701,1
	; upcomingstep.bg.scale			= 1,1
	; upcomingstep.bg.displaytime	= -1
	; upcomingstep: text and background elements, shown for all upcoming trial steps

	currentstep.text.offset 		= 0,0
	currentstep.text.font 			= 1, 0, 1, 255, 255, 0
	currentstep.text.scale 			= 1,1
	; currentstep.text.font.height	=
	currentstep.bg.offset 			= -2,0
	; currentstep.bg.anim 			= -1
	currentstep.bg.spr 				= 190,0
	currentstep.bg.scale			= .8,.8
	currentstep.bg.facing			= -1
	; currentstep.bg.displaytime		= -1
	; currentstep: text and background elements, shown for current trial step

	completedstep.text.offset		= 0,0
	completedstep.text.font 		= 1, 0, 1, 100, 100, 100
	completedstep.text.scale		= 1,1
	; completedstep.text.font.height = 
	; completedstep.bg.offset 		= -10,-6
	; completedstep.bg.spr 			= 701,2
	; completedstep.bg.anim 			= 2
	; completedstep.bg.scale 		= 1,1
	; completedstep.bg.facing		= 1
	; completedstep.bg.displaytime	= -1
	; completedstep: text and background elements, shown for completed trial steps

	glyphs.offset			= 100,2
	glyphs.scale			= 0.125,0.125
	glyphs.scalewithtext 	= "false" 	; Scales glyph height with respect to the font height. Only works for vertical trial layouts.
	glyphs.spacing			= 0,0
	glyphs.align			= 1
	; glyphs: defines glyphs offset from respective trial step, as well as scale and alignment

	; bg.layerno = 2
	; bg.offset 	= 0,0
	; bg.anim 	= 1
	; bg.scale 	= 1.5,1.5
	; bg.spr 	= 399,0
	; bg: A background element can be specified to be displayed during all trials.

	trialcounter.pos			= 10,235
	trialcounter.font			= 1,0,1
	trialcounter.text.scale		= 1,1
	; trialcounter.font.height	=
	trialcounter.text			= "Trial %s of %t"
  	trialcounter.allclear.text 	= "All Trials Clear"
	trialcounter.notrialsdata.text = "No Trials Data Found"
	; trialcounter: text element, displays current trial number and total number of trials
	; Can display a different string when all trials are clear, or when no trials data is found when loading the character

	totaltrialtimer.pos			= 310,228
	totaltrialtimer.font		= 1,0,-1
	totaltrialtimer.text.scale	= 1,1
	; totaltrialtimer.font.height=
	totaltrialtimer.text		= "Trial Timer: %s"
	; totaltrialtimer: text element, stopwatch can display the total time spent in the trial mode

	currenttrialtimer.pos			= 310,235
	currenttrialtimer.font			= 1,0,-1
	currenttrialtimer.text.scale	= 1,1
	; currenttrialtimer.font.height	=
	currenttrialtimer.text			= "Current Trial: %s"
	; currenttrialtimer: text element, stopwatch that shows time spent on current trial step

	trialtitle.pos					= 42,40
	trialtitle.text.offset 			= 0,-17
	trialtitle.text.font 			= 1,0,1
	; trialtitle.text.text			= "Trial: %s"
	; trialtitle.text.scale 		= 
	; trialtitle.text.font.height	=
	; trialtitle.bg.offset 			= -11,-11
	; trialtitle.bg.anim 			= 301
	; trialtitle.bg.scale 			= 1,1
	; trialtitle.bg.spr 			= 701,4
	; trialtitle.bg.displaytime		= -1
	; trialtitle.front.offset 		= 0,0
	; trialtitle.front.anim 		= 651
	; trialtitle.front.scale 		= 1,1
	; trialtitle.front.spr 			= 701,0
	; trialtitle.front.displaytime	= -1
	; --- NOTES
	; trialtitle: positioning, text, and animation (bg and front elements) for trial title.
	; Displayed while trial is active.

	success.pos					= 160,120
	success.snd					= 600,0 
	success.text.text			= "SUCCESS!"
	success.text.offset 		= 0,0
	success.text.font			= 2,0,0, 255, 100, 100
  	success.text.displaytime	= 70
	success.text.scale 			= 4,4
	; success.text.font.height	=
	; success.bg.offset 			= 0,0
	; success.bg.anim 			= 650
	; success.bg.scale 			= 1,1
	; success.bg.spr 			= 701,0
	; success.bg.displaytime		= -1
	; success.front.offset 		= 0,0
	; success.front.anim 		= 651
	; success.front.scale 		= 1,1
	; success.front.spr 			= 701,0
	; success.front.displaytime	= -1
	; success: positioning, sound, text, and animation (bg and front elements) upon trial success.
	; Displayed after each completed trial except the final one.

	allclear.pos				= 120,80
	allclear.snd				= 900,0
	allclear.text.text			= "ALL CLEAR!"
	allclear.text.offset 		= 0,0
	allclear.text.font 			= 2,0,1, 255, 100, 100
  	allclear.text.displaytime	= 70
	allclear.text.scale			= 4,4
	; allclear.text.font.height	=
	; allclear.bg.offset 		= 0,0
	; allclear.bg.anim 			= 650
	; allclear.bg.scale 			= 1,1
	; allclear.bg.spr 			= 701,0
	; allclear.front.offset 		= 0,0
	; allclear.front.anim 		= 652
	; allclear.front.scale 		= 1,1
	; allclear.front.spr 		= 701,0
	; allclear: positioning, sound, text, and animation (bg and front elements) upon final trial success.
	; Displayed after completing the final trial.
	
	; https://github.com/ikemen-engine/Ikemen-GO/wiki/Screenpack-features/#submenus
	; If custom menu is not declared, following menu is loaded by default:
	;menu.itemname.back 					= "Continue"
	;menu.itemname.menutrials 				= "Trials Menu"
	;menu.itemname.menutrials.trialslist 	= "Trials List"
	;menu.itemname.menutraining.back 		= "Back"
	;menu.itemname.menuinput 				= "Button Config"
	;menu.itemname.menuinput.keyboard 		= "Key Config"
	;menu.itemname.menuinput.gamepad 		= "Joystick Config"
	;menu.itemname.menuinput.empty 			= ""
	;menu.itemname.menuinput.inputdefault 	= "Default"
	;menu.itemname.menuinput.back 			= "Back"
	;menu.itemname.commandlist 				= "Command List"
	;menu.itemname.characterchange 			= "Character Change"
	;menu.itemname.exit 					= "Exit"

[TrialsBgDef] ;Ikemen feature
	spr 			= ""
	bgclearcolor 	= 0, 0, 0
```

## Creating a Character's Trials Definition File

Trials data is created on a per-character basis. To specify new trials for a character, you'll want to create a new file in the character's folder to hold the trials data. For the purposes of this tutorial, I name this file `trials.def`, but you can call it whatever you want. As mentioned before, each character gets its own `trials.def`. You can specify as many trials as you want, in any order you want.

A sample `trials.def` for kfmZ is provided below. The trials are presented to the player in the order in which they are listed in `trials.def`. Detailed information for each configurable parameter can be found in this template.

```
; KFMZ TRIALS LIST ---------------------------

[TrialDef, KFM's First Trial]

trial.dummymode			    = stand
trial.guardmode			    = none
trial.dummybuttonjam 	    = none
; trial.varvalpairs			= 

trialstep.1.text 		    = Strong Kung Fu Palm
trialstep.1.glyphs 		    = _QDF^Y

trialstep.1.stateno 		= 1010
; trialstep.1.anim			=
; trialstep.1.numofhits		=
; trialstep.1.isthrow 		=
; trialstep.1.isnohit		=
; trialstep.1.iscounterhit	=
; trialstep.1.ishelper		=
; trialstep.1.isproj		=
; trialstep.1.specialbool 	=
; trialstep.1.specialvar	=
; trialstep.1.specialstr	=

; TrialDef Parameter Descriptions
; ===============================
; [TriafDef, TrialTitle] - [TrialDef] mandatory - trial title after the comma is optional.

; trial.dummymode - optional - valid options are stand (default), crouch, jump, wjump. Defaults to stand if unspecified.
; trial.guardmode - optional - valid options are none, auto. Defaults to none if unspecified.
; trial.dummybuttonjam - optional - valid options are none, a, b, c, x, y, z, start, d, w. Defaults to none if unspecified.
; dummymode, guardmode, and dummybuttonjam are defined once per trial. The other parameters can be defined for each trial step - notice the syntax, where X is the trial number.
; trial.varvalpairs - optional - (comma-separated integers, specified in pairs, can specify 0..n pairs). Used to determine whether a trial should be displayed based on the specified variable and value pair(s) in this field. Useful if a trial should only be displayed when character has a specific variable/value pair set, such as being in a specific groove or mode. If specified, the trial will only be displayed if all variable-value pairs return true. These variable-value pairs should only be for the character (not for helpers).

; trialstep.X.text - optional - (string). Text for trial step (only displayed in vertical trials layout).
; trialstep.X.glyphs - optional - (string, see Glyph documentation [https://github.com/ikemen-engine/Ikemen-GO/wiki/Miscellaneous-info#movelists] for syntax). Same syntax as movelist glyphs. Glyphs are displayed in vertical and horizontal trials layouts.
; trialstep.X.stateno - mandatory - (integer or comma-separated integers). State to be checked to pass trial. This is the state whether it's the main character, a helper, or even a projectile.
; trialstep.X.anim - optional - (integer or comma-separated integers). Identifies animno to be checked to pass trial. Useful in certain cases.
; trialstep.X.numofhits - optional - (integer or comma-separated integers), will default to 1 if not defined. In some instances, you might want to specify a trial step to meet a multi-hit criteria before proceeding to the next trial step.
; trialstep.X.isthrow - optional - (true or false, or comma-separated true/false), will default to false if not defined. Identifies whether the trial step is a throw. Should be 'true' is trial step is a throw.
; trialstep.X.isnohit - optional - (true or false, or comma-separated true/false), will default to false if not defined. Identifies whether the trial step does not hit the opponent, or does not increase the combo counter.
; trialstep.X.iscounterhit - optional - (true or false, or comma-separated true/false), will default to false if not defined. Identifies whether the trial step should be a counter hit. Typically does not work with helpers or projectiles.
; trialstep.X.ishelper - optional - (true or false, or comma-separated true/false), will default to false if not defined. Identifies whether the trial step is a helper. Should be 'true' is trial step is a hit from a helper.
; trialstep.X.isproj - optional - (true or false, or comma-separated true/false), will default to false if not defined. Identifies whether the trial step is a projectile. Should be 'true' is trial step is a hit from a projectile.
; trialstep.X.specialbool - optional - (true or false, or comma-separated true/false), will default to false if not defined. Can be used for custom games as required.
; trialstep.X.specialval - optional - (integer or comma-separated integers). Can be used for custom games as required.
; trialstep.X.specialstr - optional - (string, or comma-separated strings). Can be used for custom games as required.

;---------------------------------------------

[TrialDef, Kung Fu Throw]
trialstep.1.text 		= Kung Fu Throw
trialstep.1.glyphs 		= [_B/_F]_+^Y
trialstep.1.stateno 	= 810
trialstep.1.isthrow		= true

;---------------------------------------------

[TrialDef, Kung Fu Taunt]
trialstep.1.text 		= Kung Fu Taunt
trialstep.1.glyphs 		= ^S
trialstep.1.stateno 	= 195
trialstep.1.isnohit		= true

;---------------------------------------------

[TrialDef, Standing Punch Chain]
trialstep.1.text 		= Standing Light Punch
trialstep.1.glyphs 		= ^X
trialstep.1.stateno 	= 200

trialstep.2.text 		= Standing Strong Punch
trialstep.2.glyphs 		= ^Y
trialstep.2.stateno 	= 210

;---------------------------------------------

[TrialDef, Condensed Standing Punch Chain]
; The next two trials show examples of condensed trial steps which check a series of parameters sequentially by using comma separated values as part of a single trial step. In other words, think of being able to specify multiple trial steps in a single step.
; For instance, this trial is the same as the previous, but the two steps are condensed into one.
; The next trial uses a combination of condensed steps and normal steps to provide a concise trial.
; Condensed steps can be very practical for multi-state moves where the trial step should only clear if all of the states are met, without having to create multiple trial steps.

trialstep.1.text 		= Standing Light to Strong Punch Chain		
trialstep.1.glyphs 		= ^X_-^Y			
trialstep.1.stateno 	= 200, 210		
trialstep.1.numofhits	= 1, 1

; When desired, you can collapsed multiple steps into a single one but using comma separated values in the following parameters:
; stateno, animno, numofhits, isthrow, iscounterhit, isnohit, ishelper, isproj, specialbool, specialvar, specialstr
; If one parameter on the trial step is defined using comma separated values, all parameters on that trial step must be defined similarly.

;---------------------------------------------

[TrialDef, Kung Fu Juggle Combo]
trialstep.1.text 		= Kung Fu Knee and Extra Kick
trialstep.1.glyphs 		= _F_F_+^K_.^K
trialstep.1.stateno 	= 1060, 1055

trialstep.2.text 		= Crouching Jab
trialstep.2.glyphs 		= _D_+^X
trialstep.2.stateno 	= 400

trialstep.3.text 		= Weak Kung Fu Palm
trialstep.3.glyphs 		= _QCF_+^X
trialstep.3.stateno 	= 1000

;---------------------------------------------

[TrialDef, Kung Fu Fist Four Piece]
trialstep.1.text 		= Jumping Strong Punch
trialstep.1.glyphs 		= _AIR^Y
trialstep.1.stateno 	= 610

trialstep.2.text 		= Standing Light Punch
trialstep.2.glyphs 		= ^X
trialstep.2.stateno 	= 200

trialstep.3.text 		= Standing Strong Punch
trialstep.3.glyphs 		= ^Y
trialstep.3.stateno 	= 210

trialstep.4.text 		= Strong Kung Fu Palm
trialstep.4.glyphs 		= _QDF^Y
trialstep.4.stateno 	= 1010

;---------------------------------------------

[TrialDef, Kung Fu Super Cancel]
trialstep.1.text 		= Jumping Strong Kick
trialstep.1.glyphs 		= _AIR^B
trialstep.1.stateno 	= 640

trialstep.2.text 		= Standing Light Kick
trialstep.2.glyphs 		= ^A
trialstep.2.stateno 	= 230

trialstep.3.text 		= Standing Strong Kick
trialstep.3.glyphs 		= ^B
trialstep.3.stateno 	= 240

trialstep.4.text 		= Fast Kung Fu Zankou
trialstep.4.glyphs 		= _QDF^A^B
trialstep.4.stateno 	= 1420

trialstep.5.text 		= Triple Kung Fu Palm
trialstep.5.glyphs 		= _QDF_QDF^P
trialstep.5.stateno 	= 3000
trialstep.5.numofhits   = 3
```

## Editing the Character's Def File

Finally, you'll want to modify the character's definition file so that Ikemen knows to read the trials data for that character. In the character's definition file (i.e. `kfmZ.def` for kfmZ), under `[Files]`, add the line `trials = trials.def`.

```
[Files]
trials = trials.def        ;Ikemen feature: Trials mode data
```

Commit message:

Added validuntilnexthit functionality, updated readme.

external/mods/trials/README.md, after:

# Universal Trials Mode
> Last tested on Ikemen GO v0.99

> Module developed by two4teezee
---
This external module offers a universal solution for Trials Mode. This markdown file is best viewed in Github or your favorite markdown file viewer.

## Installation
1. Extract archive content into "./external/mods/trials" directory
2. Add DEF code to your screenpack's `system.def`. Use the sample DEF code additions from this file to your `system.def`.
3. Add sprites to system.sff, or alternatively, create a `trials.sff`, as required.
4. Add sounds to system.snd, as required.
5. Create new trials for your character(s). As a starting point, you can use the templates found in this file to create a `trials.def` file and edit `kfmZ.def`, both in "./chars/kfmZ". You can follow the instructions in the template to create trials for any character you would like. I also have created some trials and am sharing them on Github.
6. Share your trials definition files with others!

## General info
The Trials mode provides new screenpack features and engine features so that creators can create trials for their character creations, and fully customize the way the trials are presented.

## system.def Template and Customization
Using this external module allows full customization of the trials mode in system.def, with sprites in system.sff OR in `trials.sff`, if so desired. If you are using `trials.sff`, make sure you point to it in the system.def's [Files] section as `trialsbgdef = trials.sff`.

The universal trials mode supports both vertical trials readouts, and horizontal readouts as seen in KOF XIV, among other games. The sample `system.def` included in this file can be configured to support either layouts, but as shown, it is configured to work exclusively with default assets (only uses fonts and stock glyphs, for instance). Below you'll find a brief summary of screenpack features supported by trials mode. For more detail, please consult the example `system.def` templates provided in this file for both vertical and horizontal layouts.

You can make the trials mode look as fancy or as basic as you want. The default trials mode example shipped with this module leverage "stock" Ikemen fonts and sprites in the most minimal way possible.

- A window must be specified in which the trial steps are drawn. This feature enables long trial lists that need to scroll (for vertical layouts) or have line returns and potentially scrolling (for horizontal layouts).
- The trial title name can optionally be displayed. Text and two background elements (bg and front) can be specified.
- Trial steps come in three flavors: upcoming, current, and completed. Text and background elements can be specified for each type. 
	- For horizontal layouts, the background elements are handled differently. Background elements are tiled dynamically to fit the width and height of the glyphs and desired padding around the glyph for that step.
    - Additionally, each trial step type has an "incrementor" background element. This incrementor is displayed between trial steps (for instance, as an arrow). Upcoming and current step both have incrementors, while completed steps have incrementors to other completed step, as well as an incrementor to the current step (since they could be formatted differently, for instance).
	- Note that trial step text is not displayed in horizontal layouts.
- A static or animated background can be displayed behind all trial steps. This background is independent of all trial step backgrounds, and is only displayed when a trial is active.
- Glyphs can be automatically scaled according to the font used (especially useful for vertical layouts).
	- Glyphs are optional for vertical layouts, but they are mandatory for horizontal layouts as text is not displayed in horizontal layouts.
- For Success and All Clear events, text and sound elements, as well as two background elements (bg and front) can be specified.
- Two timers are available: one keeps track of the entire time spent on the trials, while the other keeps track of the time spent on the current trial. Display of the timers is optional.
- A text string that shows the current trial can optionally be displayed.

```
[Trials Info] ;VERTICAL EXAMPLE
	trialsteps.pos 				= 42,40
	trialsteps.spacing 			= 0,11
	trialsteps.window			= 40,40, 320,240
	trialsteps.resetonsuccess	= "false"
	trialsteps.trialslayout 	= "vertical"
	; trialsteps.pos: local origin from which trial steps are drawn. Other elements have their own origin specifications.
    ; trialsteps.spacing: spacing between trial steps.
    ; trialsteps.window: X1,Y1,X2,Y2: display window for trials--will create automated scrolling or line returns, depending on the trial layout of choice
	; trialsteps.resetonsuccess: set to "true" to reset character position after each trial success (except the final one)--currently doesn't work
    ; trialsteps.trialslayout: "vertical" or "horizontal" are the only valid values. Defaults to "vertical" if not specified. Affects scrolling logic, as stated above, also enables dynamic step width

	upcomingstep.text.offset		= 0,0
	upcomingstep.text.font			= 1, 0, 1, 255, 255, 255
	upcomingstep.text.scale			= 1,1
	; upcomingstep.text.font.height	=
	; upcomingstep.bg.offset 		= -10,-6
	; upcomingstep.bg.anim			= 609
	; upcomingstep.bg.spr			= 701,1
	; upcomingstep.bg.scale			= 1,1
	; upcomingstep.bg.displaytime	= -1
	; upcomingstep: text and background elements, shown for all upcoming trial steps

	currentstep.text.offset 		= 0,0
	currentstep.text.font 			= 1, 0, 1, 255, 255, 0
	currentstep.text.scale 			= 1,1
	; currentstep.text.font.height	=
	currentstep.bg.offset 			= -2,0
	; currentstep.bg.anim 			= -1
	currentstep.bg.spr 				= 190,0
	currentstep.bg.scale			= .8,.8
	currentstep.bg.facing			= -1
	; currentstep.bg.displaytime		= -1
	; currentstep: text and background elements, shown for current trial step

	completedstep.text.offset		= 0,0
	completedstep.text.font 		= 1, 0, 1, 100, 100, 100
	completedstep.text.scale		= 1,1
	; completedstep.text.font.height = 
	; completedstep.bg.offset 		= -10,-6
	; completedstep.bg.spr 			= 701,2
	; completedstep.bg.anim 			= 2
	; completedstep.bg.scale 		= 1,1
	; completedstep.bg.facing		= 1
	; completedstep.bg.displaytime	= -1
	; completedstep: text and background elements, shown for completed trial steps

	glyphs.offset			= 100,2
	glyphs.scale			= 0.125,0.125
	glyphs.scalewithtext 	= "false" 	; Scales glyph height with respect to the font height. Only works for vertical trial layouts.
	glyphs.spacing			= 0,0
	glyphs.align			= 1
	; glyphs: defines glyphs offset from respective trial step, as well as scale and alignment

	; bg.layerno = 2
	; bg.offset 	= 0,0
	; bg.anim 	= 1
	; bg.scale 	= 1.5,1.5
	; bg.spr 	= 399,0
	; bg: A background element can be specified to be displayed during all trials.

	trialcounter.pos			= 10,235
	trialcounter.font			= 1,0,1
	trialcounter.text.scale		= 1,1
	; trialcounter.font.height	=
	trialcounter.text			= "Trial %s of %t"
  	trialcounter.allclear.text 	= "All Trials Clear"
	trialcounter.notrialsdata.text = "No Trials Data Found"
	; trialcounter: text element, displays current trial number and total number of trials
	; Can display a different string when all trials are clear, or when no trials data is found when loading the character

	totaltrialtimer.pos			= 310,228
	totaltrialtimer.font		= 1,0,-1
	totaltrialtimer.text.scale	= 1,1
	; totaltrialtimer.font.height=
	totaltrialtimer.text		= "Trial Timer: %s"
	; totaltrialtimer: text element, stopwatch can display the total time spent in the trial mode

	currenttrialtimer.pos			= 310,235
	currenttrialtimer.font			= 1,0,-1
	currenttrialtimer.text.scale	= 1,1
	; currenttrialtimer.font.height	=
	currenttrialtimer.text			= "Current Trial: %s"
	; currenttrialtimer: text element, stopwatch that shows time spent on current trial step

	trialtitle.pos					= 42,40
	trialtitle.text.offset 			= 0,-17
	trialtitle.text.font 			= 1,0,1
	; trialtitle.text.text			= "Trial: %s"
	; trialtitle.text.scale 		= 
	; trialtitle.text.font.height	=
	; trialtitle.bg.offset 			= -11,-11
	; trialtitle.bg.anim 			= 301
	; trialtitle.bg.scale 			= 1,1
	; trialtitle.bg.spr 			= 701,4
	; trialtitle.bg.displaytime		= -1
	; trialtitle.front.offset 		= 0,0
	; trialtitle.front.anim 		= 651
	; trialtitle.front.scale 		= 1,1
	; trialtitle.front.spr 			= 701,0
	; trialtitle.front.displaytime	= -1
	; --- NOTES
	; trialtitle: positioning, text, and animation (bg and front elements) for trial title.
	; Displayed while trial is active.

	success.pos					= 160,120
	success.snd					= 600,0 
	success.text.text			= "SUCCESS!"
	success.text.offset 		= 0,0
	success.text.font			= 2,0,0, 255, 100, 100
  	success.text.displaytime	= 70
	success.text.scale 			= 4,4
	; success.text.font.height	=
	; success.bg.offset 			= 0,0
	; success.bg.anim 			= 650
	; success.bg.scale 			= 1,1
	; success.bg.spr 			= 701,0
	; success.bg.displaytime		= -1
	; success.front.offset 		= 0,0
	; success.front.anim 		= 651
	; success.front.scale 		= 1,1
	; success.front.spr 			= 701,0
	; success.front.displaytime	= -1
	; success: positioning, sound, text, and animation (bg and front elements) upon trial success.
	; Displayed after each completed trial except the final one.

	allclear.pos				= 120,80
	allclear.snd				= 900,0
	allclear.text.text			= "ALL CLEAR!"
	allclear.text.offset 		= 0,0
	allclear.text.font 			= 2,0,1, 255, 100, 100
  	allclear.text.displaytime	= 70
	allclear.text.scale			= 4,4
	; allclear.text.font.height	=
	; allclear.bg.offset 		= 0,0
	; allclear.bg.anim 			= 650
	; allclear.bg.scale 			= 1,1
	; allclear.bg.spr 			= 701,0
	; allclear.front.offset 		= 0,0
	; allclear.front.anim 		= 652
	; allclear.front.scale 		= 1,1
	; allclear.front.spr 		= 701,0
	; allclear: positioning, sound, text, and animation (bg and front elements) upon final trial success.
	; Displayed after completing the final trial.
	
	; https://github.com/ikemen-engine/Ikemen-GO/wiki/Screenpack-features/#submenus
	; If custom menu is not declared, following menu is loaded by default:
	;menu.itemname.back 					= "Continue"
	;menu.itemname.menutrials 				= "Trials Menu"
	;menu.itemname.menutrials.trialslist 	= "Trials List"
	;menu.itemname.menutraining.back 		= "Back"
	;menu.itemname.menuinput 				= "Button Config"
	;menu.itemname.menuinput.keyboard 		= "Key Config"
	;menu.itemname.menuinput.gamepad 		= "Joystick Config"
	;menu.itemname.menuinput.empty 			= ""
	;menu.itemname.menuinput.inputdefault 	= "Default"
	;menu.itemname.menuinput.back 			= "Back"
	;menu.itemname.commandlist 				= "Command List"
	;menu.itemname.characterchange 			= "Character Change"
	;menu.itemname.exit 					= "Exit"

[TrialsBgDef] ;Ikemen feature
	spr 			= ""
	bgclearcolor 	= 0, 0, 0
```

## Creating a Character's Trials Definition File

Trials data is created on a per-character basis. To specify new trials for a character, you'll want to create a new file in the character's folder to hold the trials data. For the purposes of this tutorial, I name this file `trials.def`, but you can call it whatever you want. As mentioned before, each character gets its own `trials.def`. You can specify as many trials as you want, in any order you want.

A sample `trials.def` for kfmZ is provided below. The trials are presented to the player in the order in which they are listed in `trials.def`. Detailed information for each configurable parameter can be found in this template.

```
; KFMZ TRIALS LIST ---------------------------

[TrialDef, KFM's First Trial]

trial.dummymode			    = stand
trial.guardmode			    = none
trial.dummybuttonjam 	    = none
; trial.varvalpairs			= 

trialstep.1.text 		    = Strong Kung Fu Palm
trialstep.1.glyphs 		    = _QDF^Y

trialstep.1.stateno 		= 1010
; trialstep.1.anim			=
; trialstep.1.numofhits		=
; trialstep.1.isthrow 		=
; trialstep.1.isnohit		=
; trialstep.1.iscounterhit	=
; trialstep.1.ishelper		=
; trialstep.1.isproj		=
; trialstep.1.validuntilnexthit = 
; trialstep.1.specialbool 	=
; trialstep.1.specialvar	=
; trialstep.1.specialstr	=

; TrialDef Parameter Descriptions
; ===============================
; [TriafDef, TrialTitle] - [TrialDef] mandatory - trial title after the comma is optional.

; trial.dummymode - optional - valid options are stand (default), crouch, jump, wjump. Defaults to stand if unspecified.
; trial.guardmode - optional - valid options are none, auto. Defaults to none if unspecified.
; trial.dummybuttonjam - optional - valid options are none, a, b, c, x, y, z, start, d, w. Defaults to none if unspecified.
; dummymode, guardmode, and dummybuttonjam are defined once per trial. The other parameters can be defined for each trial step - notice the syntax, where X is the trial number.
; trial.varvalpairs - optional - (comma-separated integers, specified in pairs, can specify 0..n pairs). Used to determine whether a trial should be displayed based on the specified variable and value pair(s) in this field. Useful if a trial should only be displayed when character has a specific variable/value pair set, such as being in a specific groove or mode. If specified, the trial will only be displayed if all variable-value pairs return true. These variable-value pairs should only be for the character (not for helpers).

; trialstep.X.text - optional - (string). Text for trial step (only displayed in vertical trials layout).
; trialstep.X.glyphs - optional - (string, see Glyph documentation [https://github.com/ikemen-engine/Ikemen-GO/wiki/Miscellaneous-info#movelists] for syntax). Same syntax as movelist glyphs. Glyphs are displayed in vertical and horizontal trials layouts.
; trialstep.X.stateno - mandatory - (integer or comma-separated integers). State to be checked to pass trial. This is the state whether it's the main character, a helper, or even a projectile.
; trialstep.X.anim - optional - (integer or comma-separated integers). Identifies animno to be checked to pass trial. Useful in certain cases.
; trialstep.X.numofhits - optional - (integer or comma-separated integers), will default to 1 if not defined. In some instances, you might want to specify a trial step to meet a multi-hit criteria before proceeding to the next trial step.
; trialstep.X.isthrow - optional - (true or false, or comma-separated true/false), will default to false if not defined. Identifies whether the trial step is a throw. Should be 'true' is trial step is a throw.
; trialstep.X.isnohit - optional - (true or false, or comma-separated true/false), will default to false if not defined. Identifies whether the trial step does not hit the opponent, or does not increase the combo counter.
; trialstep.X.iscounterhit - optional - (true or false, or comma-separated true/false), will default to false if not defined. Identifies whether the trial step should be a counter hit. Typically does not work with helpers or projectiles.
; trialstep.X.ishelper - optional - (true or false, or comma-separated true/false), will default to false if not defined. Identifies whether the trial step is a helper. Should be 'true' is trial step is a hit from a helper.
; trialstep.X.isproj - optional - (true or false, or comma-separated true/false), will default to false if not defined. Identifies whether the trial step is a projectile. Should be 'true' is trial step is a hit from a projectile.
; trialstep.X.validuntilnexthit - optional (true or false, or comma-separate true/false), will default to false if not defined. Makes the trials checking logic pause until the next hit is registered.
; trialstep.X.specialbool - optional - (true or false, or comma-separated true/false), will default to false if not defined. Can be used for custom games as required.
; trialstep.X.specialval - optional - (integer or comma-separated integers). Can be used for custom games as required.
; trialstep.X.specialstr - optional - (string, or comma-separated strings). Can be used for custom games as required.

;---------------------------------------------

[TrialDef, Kung Fu Throw]
trialstep.1.text 		= Kung Fu Throw
trialstep.1.glyphs 		= [_B/_F]_+^Y
trialstep.1.stateno 	= 810
trialstep.1.isthrow		= true

;---------------------------------------------

[TrialDef, Kung Fu Taunt]
trialstep.1.text 		= Kung Fu Taunt
trialstep.1.glyphs 		= ^S
trialstep.1.stateno 	= 195
trialstep.1.isnohit		= true

;---------------------------------------------

[TrialDef, Standing Punch Chain]
trialstep.1.text 		= Standing Light Punch
trialstep.1.glyphs 		= ^X
trialstep.1.stateno 	= 200

trialstep.2.text 		= Standing Strong Punch
trialstep.2.glyphs 		= ^Y
trialstep.2.stateno 	= 210

;---------------------------------------------

[TrialDef, Condensed Standing Punch Chain]
; The next two trials show examples of condensed trial steps which check a series of parameters sequentially by using comma separated values as part of a single trial step. In other words, think of being able to specify multiple trial steps in a single step.
; For instance, this trial is the same as the previous, but the two steps are condensed into one.
; The next trial uses a combination of condensed steps and normal steps to provide a concise trial.
; Condensed steps can be very practical for multi-state moves where the trial step should only clear if all of the states are met, without having to create multiple trial steps.

trialstep.1.text 		= Standing Light to Strong Punch Chain		
trialstep.1.glyphs 		= ^X_-^Y			
trialstep.1.stateno 	= 200, 210		
trialstep.1.numofhits	= 1, 1

; When desired, you can collapsed multiple steps into a single one but using comma separated values in the following parameters:
; stateno, animno, numofhits, isthrow, iscounterhit, isnohit, ishelper, isproj, specialbool, specialvar, specialstr
; If one parameter on the trial step is defined using comma separated values, all parameters on that trial step must be defined similarly.

;---------------------------------------------

[TrialDef, Kung Fu Juggle Combo]
trialstep.1.text 		= Kung Fu Knee and Extra Kick
trialstep.1.glyphs 		= _F_F_+^K_.^K
trialstep.1.stateno 	= 1060, 1055

trialstep.2.text 		= Crouching Jab
trialstep.2.glyphs 		= _D_+^X
trialstep.2.stateno 	= 400

trialstep.3.text 		= Weak Kung Fu Palm
trialstep.3.glyphs 		= _QCF_+^X
trialstep.3.stateno 	= 1000

;---------------------------------------------

[TrialDef, Kung Fu Fist Four Piece]
trialstep.1.text 		= Jumping Strong Punch
trialstep.1.glyphs 		= _AIR^Y
trialstep.1.stateno 	= 610

trialstep.2.text 		= Standing Light Punch
trialstep.2.glyphs 		= ^X
trialstep.2.stateno 	= 200

trialstep.3.text 		= Standing Strong Punch
trialstep.3.glyphs 		= ^Y
trialstep.3.stateno 	= 210

trialstep.4.text 		= Strong Kung Fu Palm
trialstep.4.glyphs 		= _QDF^Y
trialstep.4.stateno 	= 1010

;---------------------------------------------

[TrialDef, Kung Fu Super Cancel]
trialstep.1.text 		= Jumping Strong Kick
trialstep.1.glyphs 		= _AIR^B
trialstep.1.stateno 	= 640

trialstep.2.text 		= Standing Light Kick
trialstep.2.glyphs 		= ^A
trialstep.2.stateno 	= 230

trialstep.3.text 		= Standing Strong Kick
trialstep.3.glyphs 		= ^B
trialstep.3.stateno 	= 240

trialstep.4.text 		= Fast Kung Fu Zankou
trialstep.4.glyphs 		= _QDF^A^B
trialstep.4.stateno 	= 1420

trialstep.5.text 		= Triple Kung Fu Palm
trialstep.5.glyphs 		= _QDF_QDF^P
trialstep.5.stateno 	= 3000
trialstep.5.numofhits   = 3
```

## Editing the Character's Def File

Finally, you'll want to modify the character's definition file so that Ikemen knows to read the trials data for that character. In the character's definition file (i.e. `kfmZ.def` for kfmZ), under `[Files]`, add the line `trials = trials.def`.

```
[Files]
trials = trials.def        ;Ikemen feature: Trials mode data
```
